Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and gentlemen.
Do you ever ever feel like your friends are
acting weird and different?
What if it’s not them.
What if it's paranormal?
What if it's the comet that's passing by?
This is Coherence (2013).
We first open to a woman, Emily, driving to
a reunion dinner with her friends while talking
on the phone with her boyfriend
When Emily finally gets to the house, their
connection cuts out and then
her phone screen cracks in her hand for no reason.
Inside, Emily reunites with Mike, Beth, and
Lee
and mentions that her phone broke and thinks
it’s due to “Miller’s Comet”.
Which is supposed to be passing over them
tonight,
which according to Emily produces a radiation
that could break electronic devices like her phone
So a quick rundown of this film is that this is a science fiction movie about
8 people in a house, and a comet that's passing by
and the effect that this comet has on these people
Emily’s phone was broken by the comet's radiation
and the comet is only now starting take effect because its passing by.
But we're gonna see that it can do more than just break phones
We find out that their friend Amir is bringing
Laurie.
and Emily isn’t isn’t happy about this
since Laurie dated Kevin, Emily’s now-boyfriend.
So Beth offers her own brand of tranquilizers
that could help Emily take the edge off.
It’s full of natural herbs and ketamine
and in case Emily wants to relax
it will be here in the kitchen and Beth puts
the ketamine down and picks up a plant and
asks Lee where she bought it.
"Galaxy that thrift store"
Now keep this sentence in
mind because it comes back later.
But their conversation is cut short after
Kevin and Hugh arrive.
Kevin being Emily’s boyfriend and Hugh being
Beth’s husband.
And a few moments later, Amir and Laurie arrive
As everyone goes to the dinner table,
Laurie and Kevin share an awkward "hi" together
But regardless of that, it's time to eat
As they’re having dinner, no one is able
to get reception on their cell phones
and it gets them talking about comet.
Especially Emily who knows a lot about comets.
Like how in Finland, after a comet passed,
people began going a little crazy.
In particular, a woman called the police telling
them that ‘her husband’
wasn't 'her husband’ since she had killed him yesterday.
But the police couldn’t arrest her since
her husband was alive.
And also right next to her
And from there, the conversation turns from comets
To Beth’s sister, someone who Amir had never heard of until now
After that Mike asks Laurie what’s she been up to and
it’s pretty impressive: she’s busy with
Outreach programs with at-risk youths but
that confuses him.
Mike’s pretty sure Laurie was teaching yoga. Spanish yoga.
and Laurie defensively asks Mike what he does.
and well, he’s an out-of-work actor who at one point
was a part of the TV show Roswell.
A show Laurie loves except she doesn’t recognize
Mike even though he was the main character,
a fact that everyone at the table seems to
know except her.
Which is pretty odd.
Hugh then reveals that his phone is cracked and broken
just like Emily’s phone: It no longer works.
In fact none of their phones work and even
the computer’s internet is nonfunctional.
Which is worrying since Hugh wanted to call
his brother
whose a bit of a science geek
who warned him (Hugh) to call him
in case anything weird happened this night
and then suddenly
there's a blackout
The guests light candles until Mike comes
to the rescue with 3 boxes of glowsticks:
red, blue, and green,
and decides to give everyone a blue
glow stick for themselves
and after Mike goes outside
He comes back, telling everyone that the entire
neighborhood is blacked out except for 1 house.
Which is 'all lit up'
But there’s something else: it’s dark.
Darker than it’s ever been on most nights.
So the group with their glowsticks all go
out
very carefully where outside they see
the comet fly across the sky.
They go back inside and notice
one of the glasses is chipped;
See, what I told you? The radiation can do more than crack phones
Did you guys notice that Amir had no knowledge as to who Beth’s sister was?
and that Mike and Laurie were confused about each
other?
These are important clues to who exactly they are
and what exactly is going on
because Amir and Laurie, have
been affected by something.
as to what this is, well, we'll find out later
Inside, they talk about the blackout and the
house with the lights on, until Hugh announces
that he wants to go to the other house to
use their phone to contact his brother.
So, Amir goes with Hugh to keep him safe, to the other house.
As the rest of the group waits, suddenly they
hear banging on the side door.
Kevin peeks outside but he can’t see anyone
out there.
and then Mike manages to get the electricity back on
with the generator.
and that's when Hugh and Amir come back.
Hugh is bleeding from his head and gets his head patched up with a bandaid
as Amir talks about the box that he brought back
What’s with the box? Well...
Amir took it after he saw Hugh drop it and
run around a corner after seeing something
But Hugh has no idea what Amir is talking
about
and is adamant that it has nothing to do with what he saw.
and then everyone's like "Wait, then what did you see then?"
and he refuses to talk about it
At first they think to put the box back but
Mike decides to open it and inside the box
is a ping-pong paddle and photos of everyone
at the party.
On the back of each photo is a number.
Confused, the group demands Hugh to tell them
what he saw
and he reluctantly tells them that he peeked
into the other house and saw a table set for
8 people:
implying, that he saw duplicates of themselves.
Then Hugh decides to go out to the other house
and writes down a note, asking to borrow their
phone, but then Laurie spots someone at the
door.
It’s a tall guy and as Hugh is finished
writing his note, Kevin opens the door and
finds a note taped to it.
He reads it aloud for everyone to hear “Hey
there!
Don’t mean to freak you out.
But we just wanted to borrow your phone for
five minutes tops.
Thanks.”
It's the same note that Hugh just finished writing.
Do you know what this means?
This means that there's another version of the group
out there in the their own version of the house
Doing the exact same thing.
They (Other Group) delivered the note first, which means that
They're a bit ahead of the first group
presumably another version of Hugh delivered the note.
With that being said, it gets even more complicated from here on out
That’s when Mike decides to go over there
to meet their ‘hypothetical duplicates’
and the group splits up with Hugh, Amir, Beth,
and Lee staying behind in the house
Outside its eerie, no one’s walking around,
it’s pitch black
and as they walk the empty neighborhood.
Laurie, Kevin, Emily, and MIke
see a quartet of people with red glowsticks
who are exactly identical to them.
The group return back to the house, running to the house
and tell the rest of the group about their other selves with the red glow sticks
Emily also mentions that there’s an area
where it’s darker than the rest of neighborhood.
She calls it ‘The Dark Zone’ and it’s
something that Hugh and Amir had noticed and
walked through, earlier.
They need answers. Now.
And Emily asks if there’s any books that might help them out and surprisingly Beth has one!
A book that belongs to Hugh’s brother but
its in their car.
So Hugh and Kevin go get it.
and it’s a scientific book about quantum physics and quantum theory
and the many worlds interpretation theory
So the Darkzone is important to the story.
because it was created by the comet and the radiation.
and we later find out that It bridges multiple realities together
and when you walk through it, you end up another reality.
Which means: that everytime you enter and exit the house
you risk coming back to the wrong version of it
Which would explain Amir and Laurie's weird behavior
They came to the dinner late and they probably walked through the Darkzone
which is why they remember things differently
they are from a different version of the house
So after the group reads the book and discuss its contents. This is what they conclude:
That there are an infinite number of realities with their own versions of the group
and the houses with an infinite number of differences
which is why one group has blue glowsticks while the other has red glowsticks
With that being said, as soon as the comet passes
each reality is stuck, permanently, with whoever stays in there
there's no going back home because it's locked off
From every other reality
From here on things get complicated and difficult to track
but let's see if you guys can keep track with me and the characters in the movie
So Mike told the group that he saw Amir, Hugh and Lee
from the window when he was outside, creeping on and peeking on into the other house
In this house, Lee is napping so the group
thinks that maybe the Beth in the other house
is currently sleeping
which means: this other house doesn't have the book
since they didn't have the conversation with Beth since Beth in the other house was asleep
and then Mike has a private talk with Kevin and tells
him (Kevin)
that he (Mike) is going to blackmail his other self
from stopping the other group from getting the book that's in the car
and Mike leaves in spite of Kevin trying to stop
him.
Now Hugh and Amir in this house now,
realise that they are in the wrong house
Since they have red glowsticks
and they see that in this house the blue glow stick box is opened,
and leave after stealing the box and the book.
Emily overhears Beth asks Lee where she
bought this plant.
"Oh, got it from Galaxy, that thrift store"
The same way it happened earlier near the beginning of the film.
and now Emily realizes that when she
left outside with Kevin, Mike, and Laurie,
they most have already come back to a different
house.
So someone from another version of the house breaks one of the car windows, and the group
checks their cars to see if anything was stolen.
Emily wanders off to her car and puts on a
ring that Kevin once gave to her.
Only to run into another version of Kevin
near her car
because when Emily asks Kevin about Hugh's car
this Kevin has no idea what she's talking about
and after they realize this, they both slowly walk away from each other
Once group is back inside, they hear someone at the doorstep
and it's Hugh and Amir who came back from the other house
and they start telling the group, their story, which is basically the same story that was told earlier
by the red glowstick version of Hugh and Amir
and Lee points out that this version of Hugh
is wearing a different bandaid from the one that she gave the other Hugh
So our group makes their own version of the box
Why? As a marker
It's full of objects and information that's unique and relevant to them
So if they ever get lost, they can check the box and see if they are at the right house
So with all this said, this probably means that some houses do have boxes already
while some definitely don't
Then there's a knock at the door and a note appears
It’s Mike’s blackmail note.
The note reads “Beth + book = Trinidad club
don't let it happen buddy”
basically Mike and Beth had an affair 12 years ago
and Mike in many if not all realities
must have thought that blackmailing himself was a good plan
and Hugh finds this note, and when he finds this out
he realizes what it means (the letter)
and gets super pissed and he punches Mike.
Everything is falling apart in this house.
People are freaking out
They're not sure if they belong.
Not sure of whose 'who
and everyone's losing their minds
and Emily is just fed up with all this chaos and confusion
and all this suffering
Emily, decides to leave the house, walking through the Dark Zone.
Where she peeks into different versions of
the house, hoping to find her way home or
at least somewhere better since in a lot of
the alternate realities
People are fighting and arguing.
Until she finds one perfect home where the
group decided to chill inside and just enjoy themselves
and Emily sneaks into this house and takes their
tranquilizers before sneaking out
Inside, this version of the group hear something
crack and walk outside
to find the windshield of Hugh’s car, shattered.
This version of Emily checks her own vehicle
putting on the ring that Kevin won for her
only to have our Emily sneak up from behind
and drug her with a ketamine soaked napkin.
and after drugging the second Emily, our Emily puts the second Emily in the trunk of the car
takes her jacket and leaves
taking her jacket and pretending to be this other Emily
when she goes back inside and although agitated,
tries to fit in without anyone noticing AND Lee notices
and wonders why Emily was taking so long.
Emily explains that she was admiring the comet
and so the group go on the veranda to watch the comet pass by.
But inside, Emily hears a noise and turns
around to see her other self,
crawling to the bathroom.
and our Emily goes in and locks the door behind
her,
and smashes the drugged Emily's face
Hiding the body in the shower tub,
cleaning up the bloodstains,
and after realizing she's lost her own ring
takes the other Emily’s ring.
Never noticing her own original one on the floor.
As soon as she leaves the bathroom, she faints.
She wakes up the next morning on the couch
and everything seems normal.
None of the craziness from last night seems
to have followed her.
Emily even checks the bathroom only to find
Beth come out,
with no sign that the body was in the bathtub.
Emily goes outside to find Hugh’s car windshield
cracked and the book about quantum physics
still in his car and that's when Kevin sees her
and gives her back her ring. As she takes the ring back, Kevin gets a call.
Its from Emily's phone
He answers the phone call and listens.
Staring with suspicion at our Emily.
So you’re probably wondering what happened right?
Well, "Our Emily", who we
shall call “Emily-1”, drugged the second
Emily, who we shall call Emily-2.
and my theory is that sometime during the night, Emily 2 snuck out
and that's why there's no body in the bathtub:
She lived
The next morning Emily-2 calls Kevin using her phone
that in this reality, never broke,
and Kevin, now listening to the phone call
now knows that the Emily in front of him, is not 'his Emily''
and now he's sure that something happened between the two of them
So Emily-2 is lucky enough to stay in her home reality, where she was almost killed by Emily-1
But that’s what I think, tell me your theories in the comments down below
and with that being said, thank you so much for watching, ladies & gentlemen.
If you enjoyed it, leave a like down below
and subscribe to get updated-